ten things you didn't know about flight
attendants maybe you loved flying or
maybe just the idea makes you clench
your teeth and terror but we bet you
didn't know all of these secrets it's
time to ask the experts who fly all the
time
flight attendants the airline industry
has been around for a long time since
the Wright brothers flew their first
powered airplane in 1903 and it has
evolved a lot since then in the early
days you were lucky to accommodate one
person on a brief and highly risky
flight today you can cram hundreds of
sleeping people into a flying bus and
launch it through the sky for hours and
hours of smooth sailing many of us
consider ourselves experts at navigating
departures flights and takeoffs almost
as naturally as we get out of bed in the
morning or take a walk around the block
but however experienced you are learning
some of these insights about airplanes
can make your flights more pleasant it
might also make the experience better
for the pilot and crew of flight
attendants who have to do this all day
every day here at bright side we
encourage practice and kindness so long
with learning so check out these secrets
of the industry and see if you can put
some of them to good use one all male
crews are a thing of the past did you
know this before 1930 the crews of
airplanes were 100% male including the
pilot ground crew and all of the flight
attendants the position of flight
attendant comes from the chief steward a
position on maritime ships which were
traditionally crewed entirely by men the
first female flight attendant was Ellen
Church she was hired by United Airlines
in 1930 in part for her skills as a
registered nurse and in part as a
marketing move the thought was if young
girls were scared to fly seeing a female
crew member would reassure them that
flying was safe it worked and women
rapidly came to dominate in the cabin
crew world over a hundred years the
gender roles reversed and many now see
this as a primarily female profession
the majority of attendants these days
are women though plenty of men also work
in the cabin all the flight attendant
needs is a responsible outlook and a
warm personality female attendants were
originally called stewardesses or air
hostesses but typically the preferred
gender-neutral term these days is
attending and speaking of flight
attendants - not waiters but captain's
assistants a common misconception is
that a flight attendant is basically a
waiter on an airplane
they're there to pour drinks serve food
hand out pillows and blankets and
generally give the passengers whatever
they asked for in reality a flight
attendants job is to assist the cabin by
managing the cabin during a flight while
the captain is busy flying the plane the
flight attendants keep an eye on what's
happening in the cabin serving as the
captain's eyes and ears outside of the
cockpit they are trained in dealing with
emergency situations particularly
first-aid and dispute management and
they report unexpected events to the
captain at least once an hour the pilots
and flight attendants check in on the
current status 3 the crew is just as
frustrated as you are no one likes
having a modify their schedule for a
delayed flight or even worse having to
sit on the tarmac waiting and waiting as
much as you don't like it
your crew won't like it either airline
crews are typically paid by the hour but
only the hours spent in actual flight
are paid a flight doesn't actually start
until the door is closed time as we all
know is money if a flight is delayed
those are hours your flight attendant
isn't getting paid for so take it easy
on them
they're not happy about it either for
don't sleep during takeoff or landing
hey we get it what better way to fly
then get in your seat shut your eyes
before the doors have even closed and go
to sleep for the rest of the flight well
experienced flight attendants recommend
avoiding this not only will you not be
attentive during the safety
demonstration and during takeoff which
is statistically the second most likely
phase of a flight where something might
go wrong but it can impinge on your
comfort as an airplane gains altitude
the pressure differential might cause
your ears to pop or you might get a
nosebleed it's better to be conscious to
deal with these things
consider chewing a piece of gum or
drinking water while climbing for the
same reason you should try to be awake
for descent and landing - this period of
a flight is the most dangerous based on
statistics from a Boeing air travel
study 58% of fatal accidents documented
between 2004 and 2013 occurred during
descent approach and landing that said
five sleeping when cruising is a great
idea once the airplane is up in the air
take a nap this is a great solution for
people who are scared of flying and it
reduces the workload on the crew giving
them more time and energy to spend on
other passengers who need them
attendants encourage passengers to sleep
on night flights deliberately delaying
food service to let people fall asleep
if you're asleep on a plane the crew
won't wake you up unless there's an
emergency or you've landed so you're
good to catch a few Z's 6 chicken or
fish statistically most people on a long
flight order the chicken rather than the
fish since meal service tends to go from
the front of the plane to the back you
may end up getting the fish as your only
option some flight attendants use a
trick to get more people to choose the
fish they say that the fish is a special
from the chef reserved exclusively for
this flight
on average people are naturally drawn
the things that are exclusive and
special making the fish more popular if
you're a vegetarian airlines have
recently become pretty good about
offering alternative options and that
can be a good choice if you don't
totally trust the meat on offer but
watch out if your flight doesn't offer a
veggie meal in first-class your odds of
being upgraded might go down
significantly if you selected the veggie
option because the attendants won't have
anything to offer you 7 follow
instructions or else there are all kinds
of things we get asked to do or not to
do on airplanes for instance flight
attendants may ask you to turn off
electronic devices while taking off you
probably hear this common phrase please
return your seats and tray tables to
their upright and locked positions the
american faa has recently backed away
from its assertion that electronics
interfere with plane radar but the
tables and seats thing makes a lot of
sense in a rough landing the person
sitting behind you is more likely to hit
their face on a recline chair which can
damage their teeth or break their nose
regardless even if a flight attendant
asks you to do something that seems
silly you should do it
why because some airlines supply their
flight attendants with tasers to deal
with passengers who don't comply safety
is very important on planes and they've
got to be able to control a situation
don't make it hard on them and they
won't make it hard on you 8 sit toward
the back when you get on a plane it's
easy to opt for the front seats you're
closer to the door you don't have to
walk as far and you won't be stuck in
the hurry-up-and-wait phase at your
destination Airport when you're stuck in
your seat waiting for everyone ahead of
you to get their bags and file out
restrain this impulse especially if you
are a nervous flier you'll be pleased to
know that the back seats tend to be far
safer statistically speaking most
crashes caused significantly more damage
to the front of the plane
roto bursts and engine explosions tend
to affect the middle of the plane most
survivors from airplane crashes were
seated in the rear of the aircraft the
service is also significantly better in
the back of the plane because everything
is right there in the rear storage
compartment pillows extra blankets more
drinks passengers in the rear of the
plane get these things first the flight
attendants don't have to carry things as
far up the aisle so they'll come much
more quickly and readily when you call
9:10 Daan's feeling nauseated or sick
push the attendant button flight
attendants are trained in first aid and
CPR they can treat small wounds assess
symptoms of common traveler illnesses
and even deliver babies in flight they
are not medical professionals though and
they are trained to defer to actual
doctors on the plane 10 flying tips
straight from the pros flight attendants
are full of useful knowledge to make
your trip a cleaner safer and more
comfortable one keep these things in
mind one airplane floors don't get deep
cleaned very often and thousands of
people walk on them every day never take
your shoes off on a plane at the very
least never walk on the carpet barefoot
or in your socks to airplane toilets are
similarly unclean use them only when you
need to and make sure you disinfect your
hands even if you've washed them 3 those
fold down tables lots of passengers use
them for all sorts of things as writing
surfaces pillows with drool catching
action or places to change a baby you
probably don't want to eat off a surface
that might have had a dirty diaper on it
just an hour ago use antibacterial
disinfectant and clean the tray for your
own safety 4 avoid using words like bomb
or explosion or anything connected with
terrorism on a plane it makes people
nervous and know
will appreciate the joke you might also
be asked to leave five sewing before or
during a flight is a professional
superstition and no flight attendant
will be able to provide you with a
needle and thread six many flight
attendants hate pouring diet coke for
the in-flight drink service it tends to
be extra fizzy even compared to other
drinks 7 flight attendants have very
little free time during a flight if
you're thirsty rather than pressing the
call button consider going up to ask
them for a glass of water this is also a
good chance to stretch your legs on a
long flight 8 being kind pays off flight
attendants provide better service to
polite and courteous passengers you
might get a better seat perhaps in an
exit row where you can stretch your legs
more food or discounted or free snacks
and drinks 9 we're beating the same
routine day in and day out can get
really monotonous so some crews like to
break it up with a comedic delivery of
the safety demonstration a tour of sites
out the window of the plane or even a
dance routine
there's no reason air travel can't be
fun right 10 be sure to know the
airline's tipping policy most passengers
don't tip flight attendants and it can
be a nice gesture to show your
appreciation did any of those secrets
surprise you do you know any unusual
things about airplanes
tell us about them in the comments and
don't forget to Like share and subscribe
to always stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]